.TH encrypt "1" "January 2009" "encrypt" "encrypt"
.SH NAME
encrypt \- a (simple) cross\-platform encryption program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B encrypt
\fIOPTION ARGUMENT\fR ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBencrypt\fR is a simple encryption utility with the intention of being
simple yet powerful. To achieve this, everything is kept simple and
functional, and as intuitive as possible. It further aims to provide a
standard interface across all platforms to make itself more appealing to
those who use multiple operating systems. It uses a collection of 
modules, or plugins, which allow the user to choose an algorithm for 
encryption at runtime.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-in FILE\fR
Input file
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-out FILE\fR
Output file
.TP
\fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\-keyfile FILE\fR
Key file (must come first if generating a key)
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-passfile FILE\fR
File to use as passphrase to generate key
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-password PASSWORD\fR
The password you wish to use for the key
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-encrypt ALGORITHM\fR
Algorithm to use for encryption
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-decrypt ALGORITHM\fR
Algorithm to use for decryption
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-about ALGORITHM\fR
Information about a particular algorithm
.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-generate SIZE\fR
Generate a key of specified size (in bits)
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-modules\fR
List all available algorithms
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
This help list
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-licence\fR
An overview of the GNU GPL
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show the version number and quit
.PP
If \fB\-i\fR or \fB\-o\fR are omitted then stdin/stdout are used. Either
\fB\-e\fR or \fB\-d\fR must be present if you intend to do something, as well
as \fB\-k\fR \fB\-f\fR or \fB-p\fR. Using \fB\-g\fR will generate a random key
and echo it to stdout unless \fB\-g\fR is preceded by \fB\-k\fR; the key
can be used later with the \fB\-k\fR option. However \fB\-a\fR \fB\-m\fR
\fB\-h\fR \fB\-l\fR \fB\-v\fR may be used on their own or not at all.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Ashley Anderson
.SH BUGS
There are no bugs only features yet to be documented :p
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2004\-2009 albinoloverats ~ Software Development
.SH LICENCE
This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Note on spelling: As albinoloverats.net is a British company and "licence" is
the correct spelling in its native language. However, the name of the licences,
written in most cases in America, feature the American spelling of the word,
license. As part of the title of the official licensing document it was thought
inappropriate to alter the spelling.  In British English, license is the verb,
licence is the noun and licensee is the person who is granted a Licence.
